Yes.
>> So in some cases we don't have a submit
button whenever user clicks on tab,
you'll just submit
the data to the backend.
So how to test this
particle functionality?
>> So, you do something like onblur or
something?
>> Yes.
>> So, I would do fireEvent.blur.
Oops.
>> If we'll wait for some second, let
say user is not typing in anything, uhu?
>> If you wait, yeah.
So in that situation, you probably
using a set timeout or something.
So what I would recommend is just
has this useFakeTimers method and
then inside of your test you can say,
just.runAllTimers.
And then it'll just speed them all ahead.
So if you're waiting a 300 millisecond,
you don't actually have to
wait that time in your test.
If you don't want to do that cuz that
is like technically that's mocking.
I don't have a problem doing that but
if there was a situation where you didn't
need to wait for something then you
can pull in wait or wait for element.
And you can use those APIs,
you check out the docs for those.
They're pretty handy.
Okay, yes?
>> Is there a way to check
the state of a component?
So after some event,
you may be setting some internal state,
you wanna ensure that that state is set.
>> Yes, I'm glad that you asked that.
So, let me ask you a question.
Why do you want to,
can you give me an example of?
>> So, let's say when you click
the button, you have a little spinner that
comes up, cuz it could be
a long API call or whatever.
You want to insure that typically I
guess we have you set the state is
submitting that type of thing.
>> Mm-hm.
>> The react re-renders,
you have a spinner component and
then if its renders itself if it should or
not.
>> Right, yeah, that's perfect,
perfect question.
So if you, whenever I ask myself, so
how do I test this,
I try to take a step back and think.
If I were a manual tester,
how would I test this?
If I only had the interface, didn't have
the depth tools, how would I do this.
And I would click on the thing and
then I would make an assertion.
And I'd jot down okay yes,
I see the loading spinner test path.
So that's how I would test it.
Rather than checking the internal state,
I would say, I click the button and
the loading spinner shows up so I'd
verify that the loading spinner's there.
And then you probably have that
network request mocked out.
And even if you don't, if it's like a full
end to end test, you're gonna wait for
that thing to go away, and then you'll
make the rest of your assertions.
And so you can do all of that
with the react-testing-library,
so the reason that I would avoid
checking state is because yes,
maybe you are setting, is submitting
state properly but you could have.
Like somebody goes and refactors
the render method and it actually messes
things up where it doesn't actually
show the loading spinner anymore.
So your test passes, but
your application is busted.
And so by testing it as close to
the way that the user would test it,
then you can avoid that.
You get both the fact that
the state is being set and
the fact that it's being
rendered properly.
But the fact that state is being set
is actually irrelevant to the test,
cuz it doesn't really care.
You could be using jQuery for all I care,
it's like I don't really
care how that happens.
So just the fact that it does
is what I want to verify.
And that kind of harkens back to
the implementation details versus
testing the public API.
And you can consider the dom that
it renders, part of the public API.
Great question, yeah.
>> Well, I just can say because if you're
testing state then theoretically if you
wanted to make sure that everything is
working the way that you had hoped for
to, you'd have to write more test for
all the individual components.
Whereas if you write, you're drawing
a larger box around the problem and
you're measuring the end result,
that's just one single test.
Any of the things that fed
into that could break and
you won't be able to detect it that way.
>> Exactly, yeah.
Now there is something to be said for
more specific unit tests
because when those break, it's a lot
easier to identify what it was that broke.
And so,
because if we were dogmatic about this and
said, okay, only the way the user tests
it, we just tested the high bird's eye
level of everything, and just about
anything could break those kinds of tests.
And so that is why I don't do
purely only end-to-end tests.
Because they’re generally harder to
debug in a lower level unit test.
So there is a balance here.
We try to avoid dogma in testing
because it’s just a path to sadness.
So I’m looking for that nice balance of
I'm getting the confidence that I'm
looking for, but I don't have to write
like 30 tests just to make sure things
are integrating together properly.
Just maybe one test to make sure things
integrate together properly, and
then a bunch of other tests
to test the edge cases.
But even with those edge cases,
I still wouldn't worry about
testing internal state.
Because in those situations,
a refactor will break your test.
Well, okay, I'm gonna change the name of
this state that really doesn't change how
the thing works, but if you're
asserting on the instance state now,
your tests are broken and
that's kind of annoying.
That's actually one of the reasons
why a lot of people don't like
testing in general,
is because I refactored my code, and
then a whole bunch of tests went red,
and now I don't like testing.
So tests that don't break when
you refactor are pretty nice.